---
title: Nemaste
creation_date: '2001-01-12'
image: phone.gif
author: MD
layout: post
---

### Written by: MD

Oct/Nov 2000

"NEPAL"

We spent our first 3 days in Bangkok catching up with a 
friend of mine before arriving in Kathmandu.

Talk about Kathmandu being a definite "gringo" hangout here 
in Nepal. There's everything that you could possibly think 
of needing, plus more for all your activities, and they are 
all for great prices.  Kathmandu is a rather hectic place, 
but, also very easy to slot into in no time.  The main 
attraction in Kathmandu is all the temples, but after a 
couple of days you have to escape to the mountains for the 
fresh air and relaxed pace of life, which we did.

To get there we used the local transport - always a bit 
dodgey, especially given the number of buses leaving the 
road and lying in the valleys below!! The most comfortable 
way to travel is on the roof rack.  You have uninterupted 
views and can jump clear if the bus leaves the road!(which 
it didn't)

Our Treking adventure "The Annapurna Curcuit" began in a 
village below
1000mtrs surrounded by terraced rice paddy fields.  For the 
first 5 days it rained on and off.  We walked an average of 
5 hours a day - taking it easy!! Upon reaching the Manang 
valley the clouds finally lifted and our views were 
spectacular, taking in the Annapurna mountains between 7000-
8000mtrs. Throughout the trek the villages have guesthouses 
where trekkers "crash" for the night with "dal bhat" being 
the common meal(made up of rice lentils, soup, curry veg).

Electricity is only a recent luxury - it has been there for 
only 6yrs. Plus, they now have solar showers so trekers can 
get a"hot",
mostly luke warm shower!! Our sights during the trek varied 
from one place to the next - Majestic waterfalls, hot 
springs(to soothe those aching muscles), raging rapids, & 
multicoloured buterflies and birds.
You are constantly sharing the trail with locals, cows, 
sheep, yaks, and the many donkey convoys which supply goods 
to the villages, not to mention the porters who carry 
supplies on many occasions over one and a half their 
bodyweight!!!

Before attempting to cross Thorung La(5416mtrs)we spent a 
few days
acclimatising to the altitude.  This was done in the Manang 
valley above 3800mtrs.  Otherwise we could have ended up 
with altitude sickness, a very common problem when 
ascending too quickly(at 5000mtr there is only 50% oxygen 
that you have at sea level)

There is a huge Tibetan influence here, which can be seen 
in the type of house - flat roofs, mud bricks etc.  The 
valley along with the next valley we crossed into(Manang 
and the Mustang valley) are  both in the rain shadow to the 
north of the Annapurna Range so they are very dry and 
baron.  Not like the rest of our time in the Mountains.

We had no problems conquering Thorung La(La means Pass) at 
5416mtrs. Yes, metres above sea level!! So from there 
onwards it was down hill most of the way.  We certainly 
enjoyed descending quickly but is was very hard on the 
legs!! I was in heaven in a small village where he found a 
pub with satelite TV showing the World Cup Rugby!!  And to 
make it even better they were serving cheap potent apple 
cider plus apricot brandy!!

As we decended further the vegetation changed from very 
little to pine forests to tropical forests.  Before we 
reached Pokhara, the end of the trek, we had one final 
climb to get one final look at the amazing views of the 
Himalayan Mountains. Well as we had started the hike in the 
rain it decided to rain for us on our last day !!

So after 18 days of treking we made it to Pokhara, a town 
beside a lovely lake with a view of the mountains we had 
just hiked around.  It was heaven to be able to have hot 
showers, western food and of course satelite TV for me to 
watch the World Cup Rugby!!   So I hope that this wasn't 
too long a read and we will both look forward to hearing 
what you are all up to at the moment!!



